# How to build a healthy dev team

In my team at SumUp over the last 2 1/2 years, we've hired a total of 7
engineers, none of which have left the company. One has moved internally,
however due to chasing new personal challenges. This is a fair amount better
than some teams I've been part of in the past, and one of the primary reasons
for this I believe is our technical decision making process.

If you've been working in software for a reasonable length of time, you've
probably been part of both highly functioning teams, but also potentially teams
which struggled with churn. These are not necessarily mutually exclusive,
however, inversely correlated.

Now churn of engineers is not uncommon, but high churn has significant costs
to any business and team morale. Hence, keeping it minimal is certainly
preferable. 

It's part of human nature to want to feel like we are making a contribution in
some way. This is especially true of engineers when it comes to technical
discussions. Someone who not not feel their opinion is valued will very quickly
disengage and likely take up an opportunity where their opinion is valued.

This is one of the key aspects to a healthy team. Making sure everyone feels
like they contribute in a meaningful way within the team. The same goes for
engineers of all levels when it comes to technical discussions. Yet it is often
those that have less experience who are more succeptible to not having their
opinions valued.

This is a commonly overlooked reason for churn amongst juniors. Faster career
progression is certainly the dominant factor, but increasingly as companies work
to resolve internal progression, intra-team contribution should be in the
spotlight.


## The feeling of contribution

It is common for teams to have a heirarchy. Engineers who are more or less
experienced, with the more experienced ones tending to have more of a say in
technical discussions. As a technical leader, this is an important
responsibility and without careful attention can have significant repercussions
on the team as  a whole.

Most companies have more or less a mapping to junior, intermediate and senior
job titles, with advancement beyond this in either a technical or managerial
fashion. It is also common for healthy teams to be made up of members from each
of these competencies.


## The importance of technical communication

